<!--
vim:textwidth=79:colorcolumn=80
https://wiki.osdev.org/Introduction
-->
# Concepts

## Why develop an Operating System?
___JUST FOR FUN___

## What is an Operating System?
An Operating System is a software controlling the operation of a computer system
and its resources. A very important criteria to all Operating system is:

> Capable of loading and executing user programs providing standardized
> (hardware-independent) input/output interface for them.

Major functions of operating systems may include:
* Managing memory and other system resources.
* Imposing security and access policies.
* Scheduling and multiplexing processes and threads.
* Launching and closing user programs dynamically.
* Providing a basic user interface and application programmer interface.

## What is a Kernal?
A kernal is something that:
* Handles events generated by hardware (called interrupts) and software
(called system calls).
* Manages access to resources.
* Defines some *abstractions* like files, processes, sockets, directories, etc.

> The hardware event handlers (*interrupt handlers*) deals with things like
> input etc. The *system calls* are initiated by user-level programs, while
> most user programs don't directly issue system calls, instead use a
> *standard library* to do the ugly jobs, the C function `fopen()` for example.

## What is a Shellg
A shell offers humans an interface with the computer. It:
* Allows user to select a program to be started with optional arguments.
* Allows trivial operation on the local storage.

## What is a GUI about?
The graphical user interface (GUI) must be able to:
* Catch user input events (keyboard, mouse, etc.) and dispatch them to the
  proper object.
* Update the internal information of what is to be displayed where on the
  screen, determining which parts of the screen need to be redrawn.
* Update the visible screen contents, redrawing the necessary parts.
* Do so in a way that feels natural, intuitive, and responsive to the user.
